A GAME BY PETER MCPHERSON, 
FOR 1-6 PLAYERS, AGES 14 AND UP. objective
Your town is represented by a 4x4  grid, on which you will place Resource  cubes in specific layouts to construct  buildings. Each building scores Victory 
Points (
) in a unique way. When no  player can place any more resources or  construct any buildings, the game ends,  and any squares without a building are  worth -1 
The player with the most 
 wins! peter mcpherson
§elcome!
You are the mayor of a tiny town  in the forest, where the smaller  creatures of the woods have created  a civilization hidden away from  predators. This new land is small  and the resources are scarce—you  take what you can get and never  say no to building materials. 
Cleverly plan and construct a  thriving town, and don’t let it fill  up with wasted resources! 
Whoever builds the most  prosperous tiny town wins!  contents
•	 1 rulebook
•	 6 player boards
•	 25 Building cards
•	 15 Monument cards
•	 15 Resource cards
•	 1 scorepad
•	 126 wooden buildings
•	 1 wooden Master 
Builder hammer
•	 6 wooden monuments 
•	 90 wooden Resource cubes
Setup
1.	 Give each player a player board. 
2.	 Leave the Resource cards in the box (unless you  are playing the Town Hall rules or Solo variant). 
3.	 Place the Cottage card (with the 
 symbol on  the back) face-up in the center of the table. 
4.	 Sort the remaining Building cards into separate  piles by the symbols on the back. 
5.	 Shuffle each pile of 4 cards. 
6.	 Draw 1 card from each pile and place them  face-up next to the Cottage card, so they are  visible to all players. 
7.	 Place the remaining Building cards back into the   box – they will not be used for this game. For  your first game, it is recommended to use the set  of Building cards shown on the right. 
8.	 Place the wooden Resource cubes and buildings 
(but NOT monuments) in a general supply  where all players can reach them. 
There are 5 different resources:
WOOD
WHEAT
BRICK
GLASS
STONE
9.	 The starting player is the player who most  recently constructed something (in real life).  
Give that player the Master Builder hammer.
10.	Shuffle the Monument cards and deal each  player 2 Monument cards face-down, which they  should look at but keep secret. Players should  select 1 Monument card to keep and discard the  other to the box, face-down. 
11.	Give each player 1 wooden monument ( 
 ),  which they should keep next to their Monument  card. Return any remaining monuments to the  box — they will not be available to players in this  game. For your first game, you may want to  play without monuments. recommended cards for first play
Monuments
A monument is a special type of building that can  only be constructed by the player holding that card. 
Players may only construct their monuments once. 
Monuments may be constructed in any round, just like  a normal building (see Building Construction Rules). 
Upon constructing a monument, the player should read  the Monument card aloud, place it face-up in front  of them, and resolve any immediate effects. If the card  grants an ability, that ability takes effect immediately and  only applies to the card’s holder. Scoring for Monument  cards is resolved at game end. Monuments are not a part  of the general supply. building card anatomy
A.	Card Title
B.	Building Type
C.	Art
D.	Resource Build Pattern
E.	Building Ability/Scoring
10
1 1 b a c d e
Round Overview
1.	 The Master Builder names a type of  resource. (Wood, Wheat, Brick, Glass, or Stone)
2.	 All players MUST take a cube of this  resource and place it in an empty square in  their town grid. Players do this simultaneously. resource placement
•	Resources may never be moved to a  different square after being placed.
•	Resources can only be removed by  constructing a building.
•	Only 1 resource or building may occupy a  square.
•	When resources are removed from a board,  they go back to the general supply.
3.	 Players may construct any buildings for  which they have the matching resources  in the correct shape. Players do this  simultaneously and should announce what  building they are constructing.
4.	 Once all players have placed their resources  and constructed buildings, a new round  begins. The Master Builder token passes to  the player on the left.
The new Master Builder should always wait until all  players are ready before naming the next resource. 
Players can show that they are still thinking by  holding up their resource cube until they place it. 
After a resource has been placed, players have until  the next resource is named to construct any buildings. the cavern rule
Building a Tiny Town is difficult. If this is one of your  first games, or if you want a little more flexibility in  your town, we recommend that you play with the 
Cavern rule. Throughout the game, players have the  option of placing up to 2 resources named by other  players off to the side of their board. These resources  score no points or penalties at the end of the game. 
Players must decide when it is most advantageous to  use this special ability!
Building Construction Rules
Building layouts may be mirrored/flipped and rotated, as long as the configuration of resources remains the  same.  To construct a building:
1.	 Remove the correct resources  in the correct shape from your  board and place them back in  the general supply. 
2.	 Take the matching wooden  building from the general  supply.
3.	 Place it in 1 of the squares  that was occupied by the  resources removed. 
A resource can only be used to  construct 1 building — in other  words, every building requires all  of its resources.
Buildings do not have to be  constructed as soon as its  resources are in place. Players may  wait as many rounds as they want  to construct a building.
Players may construct multiple  buildings at once.
Buildings may never be moved  to a different square after being  placed.
Any player can construct any  of the buildings (except other  players’ monuments). Building  cards are not replaced when  players construct buildings.
Players cannot construct a  building immediately after a  resource has been named without  physically placing the resource  cube in their town first. building construction example
So this is allowed.
And this.
And even this.
But not this, since the  configuration of the   cubes does not match  the Chapel card.
If John places a blue Resource cube  here, he may choose to construct a 
Chapel.
BLAM! Now John is ready to  construct a Chapel.
John removes the 4 cubes and  can place the wooden Chapel in  any of the squares they occupied. 
He chooses the rightmost square. 
Resources and other buildings may  no longer be placed in that square.
feeding your cottages
Remember! Cottages ( 
 ) must be fed by 
 buildings to be worth 
. Players may construct Cottages before or after constructing 
  buildings, but unfed Cottages at game end score 0 
Completing Your Town
When your town is filled with resources and you cannot (or choose not to)  construct any buildings, your town is completed. You are out of the game and can  start calculating your score. (You no longer take turns naming resources as the 
Master Builder.)
Note: A player may continue to place resources and name resources as the Master 
Builder as long as they have space for the resources in their town, even if it will not be  possible for them to construct any buildings.
If only 1 player is left, that player can continue to name resources as the sole Master 
Builder until their town is completed.
Game End
When all players’ towns are completed, the game ends immediately. Remove all  remaining resource cubes (except from Warehouses). Each empty square is  worth -1 
. Players add their 
 for each building in their town and subtract any  penalties to calculate their final score. The player with the most 
 wins!
In the case of a tie, the tied player who had the fewest turns as Master Builder wins. 
If there is still a tie, the player with the fewest empty squares wins. If there is still a  tie, the player with the most Cottages wins. If there is still a tie, the tied players share  the victory.
Additional Rules
•	Resource cubes and buildings are unlimited. If you run out, substitute  some other marker.
•	Unfed Cottages at game end remain on the board but score no 
Some other buildings (such as Wells) still score points from  unfed Cottages.
•	“Adjacent” means up, down, left, and right.
•	It is possible to have a negative score. 
 never score 
 on their own.
Scoring Example
Playing without monuments, this board would score:
2 WELLS
 for each adjacent  cottage (fed and unfed).
4 FED 
COTTAGES
 for each fed cottage.  
1 Farm only feeds 
4 Cottages, so only 4 of  the 5 constructed Cottages  score 
12 
CHAPEL
 for each of the 4 fed 
Cottages and 0 
 for the 
1 unfed Cottage.
3 TAVERNS
 for having   constructed 3 Taverns.
BAKERY
 for being adjacent  to a Farm.
WAREHOUSE
-1 
 for each resource it  holds.
-3 
2 EMPTY 
SQUARES  
-1 
 each.
-2 
TOTAL: 28 
Town Hall Rules
Town Hall is a different way to play Tiny Towns that  introduces the Resource deck and changes the way  resources are selected during the game.
Assign 1 player to be the Mayor, who will draw 
Resource cards to determine which resource all  players will place.  gameplay
Shuffle the 15 Resource cards to form a draw pile,  and discard the top 5 cards face-down to a discard  pile.
1.	 The Mayor starts the game by drawing the top 
Resource card from the draw pile and placing  it face-up on the table. Players must place the  resource shown on the card in their town. 
2.	 After all players have placed their resources,  the Mayor places the Resource card on the  discard pile and draws a new Resource card  for the second round, placing it face-up on the  table. All players once again place the indicated  resource in their town, and the Mayor places the 
Resource card on the discard pile. 
3.	 In the third round, players individually choose 
1 of the 5 resources from the supply to place in  their town. (Players do this simultaneously.)
In subsequent rounds repeat this pattern, with the 
Mayor drawing 1 Resource card each for every first  and second round, and players choosing a resource  individually for every third round. When a Resource  card needs to be drawn and the draw pile is empty,  the Mayor shuffles the cards in the discard pile to  form a new draw pile and again discards the top 
5 cards face-down. Play continues until the end  conditions of the standard game are met. 
Note: In this, Building and Monument cards that  refer to other players naming resources (Factory, 
Warehouse, Statue of the Bondmaker) apply to  rounds in which the Mayor draws a Resource  card. The ongoing effect of Bank applies to every  third round, in which players have their choice of  resource (that is, players can no longer choose from  the supply in those rounds the resources placed on  any of their Banks). 
If a player builds the monument Fort Ironweed,  that player may no longer take and place resources  every third round, in which players have their choice  of resource, unless that player is the only player  remaining.
Solo Variant
There is no Master Builder in the Solo variant. setup
Remove the following cards from the game when  playing the solo variant:
The Inn ( 
 ), the Bank ( 
 ), Fort Ironweed ( 
 ) and 
Opaleye’s Watch ( 
 ). solo rules
Shuffle the 15 Resource cards to form a draw pile  and reveal the top 3 cards. You choose to place  any 1 of the 3 resources shown in your town and  construct buildings as normal. Then place the  corresponding card face-down on the bottom of the  draw pile and draw a new Resource card to replace it.
Note: In this variant, Building and Monument cards that refer  to other players naming resources (Factory, Warehouse, 
Statue of the Bondmaker) apply to choosing resources from  the resource deck.
The game ends as normal, when your town is  completed (your town is filled with resources  and you cannot or choose not to construct any  buildings). 
Check your score against the chart below:
 (VP)
Skill Level Achieved
38 or more
Master Architect
32-37
Town Planner
25-31
Engineer
18-24
Carpenter
10-17
Builder’s Apprentice
9 or less
Aspiring Architect
Building Clarifications
Cottage
Unfed Cottages remain on the board  but do not score points on their own. 
Some other buildings, such as Wells,  treat fed and unfed Cottages the  same. You may construct Cottages  even if you don’t yet have a 
Farm
Farms feed 4 
 anywhere on the  board. 
Granary
Granaries only feed 
 in the 8  immediate surrounding squares (up,  down, left, right, and diagonal), for a  maximum of 8 
Greenhouse
Greenhouses feed 1 contiguous  group of 
 that are adjacent (up,  down, left, and right) to each other. 
This group does not have to be  adjacent to a Greenhouse. 
Orchard
Orchards will always feed a  maximum of 6 
, no matter where  they are placed. 
Fountain
Fountains cannot score more than 
. Adjacent refers to up, down,  left, and right, not diagonal.
Millstone
Millstones cannot score more than 
, even if they are adjacent to  multiple 
 or 
Shed
Sheds are not restricted to  being placed in the 2 squares  their resources came from when  constructed, but may be placed in  any empty square on the board. 
Well
Adjacent refers to up, down, left, and  right, not diagonal. Adjacent fed and  unfed 
 score 1 
Abbey
Abbeys like to be isolated. If an 
Abbey is adjacent (up, down, left,  and right) to any of 
 , it is  worth 0 
Chapel
Score Chapels individually.  
A town with 3 fed 
 and 1 unfed 
  will make each Chapel worth 
. (Chapels do not earn 
 for  unfed  
.)
Cloister
Cloisters not placed in a corner  will still score 1 
 for each other 
Cloister placed in a corner.  
The maximum a Cloister can  score is 4 
Temple
Temples are worth 0 
 if they are  not adjacent to at least 2 
Almshouse
The maximum Almshouse score is 
26 
. If you construct more than 6 
Almshouses, the total Almshouse  score is still 26 
Feast Hall
If you tie with the player to your right,  your Feast Halls are only worth  
. In a 2-player game, Feast Halls  are worth 3 
 to the player with the  most and 2 
 to the player with the  least, or 2 
 if tied.
Inn
Inns in the same row or column are  worth 0 
Tavern
Taverns score points as a group. For  example, 4 Taverns are worth 14 
  total (but can be anywhere on the  board). Any Taverns constructed  after the 5th Tavern do not increase  your Tavern score. 
Bakery
Adjacent refers to up, down, left, and  right, not diagonal.
Market
Markets score for either a row or  column, but not both. Markets  always score 1 
 for themselves in  addition to any other Markets in the  same row or column, for a maximum  score of 4 
Tailor
Tailors not constructed in the 4  center squares are still worth 1 
  plus 1 
 for each other Tailor in the 
4 center squares. The maximum a 
Tailor can score in total is 5 
Theater
A Theater’s score is the total number  of unique building types besides 
Theater that share a row or column  with that Theater, for a maximum  score of 6 
. If there are buildings  of the same type in both the same  row and column as Theater, that  building type only counts once  toward Theater’s score. Monument  counts as a unique building type 
(unless it is Barrett Castle, which  counts as 2 
 ).
Bank
You cannot construct more than 
5 Banks, since there would be no  resource for them to hold. 
Factory
You may choose for multiple 
Factories to hold the same resource,  but it offers you no advantage.
Trading Post
Trading Posts can be used in the  layout of any future buildings. When  you construct a building that used a 
Trading Post as a resource, you do  not remove the Trading Post from its  square. You can use multiple Trading 
Posts to construct a single building,  but at least 1 non-Trading Post  resource must be used.
Warehouse
You can store up to 3 resources with a 
Warehouse by physically placing the  cubes on the building. When another  player names a resource that you  do not want, place the resource on  your Warehouse. You may remove  a resource from your Warehouse  and place it in an empty square on  your board when you do this. You  can never remove a resource without  placing a new resource on the 
Warehouse. As a result, the number  of resources on a Warehouse will  never decrease.
Monument Clarifications
Architect’s Guild
You may choose not to use the  ability of the Architect’s Guild,  but you cannot use it later. The  buildings you place may be the  same type or 2 different types. 
You cannot change buildings into  monuments, since they are not in  the general supply.
Archive of the 
Second Age
It does not matter where buildings  are located for scoring this  monument.
Barrett Castle
For all building scoring, Barrett 
Castle counts as 2 
 and not a 
Cathedral of 
Caterina
This applies only to empty squares  on your own board.
Fort Ironweed
Once this monument is constructed,  you may not be Master Builder and  must pass the token to the player  on your left, unless you are the last  player in the game.
Grove University
You cannot place a monument after  constructing Grove University  since monuments are not in the  general supply.
Mandras Palace
Adjacent refers to up, down, left,  and right, not diagonal.
Opaleye’s Watch
You may not choose monument as a  building type for this card, since it is  not in the general supply.
Shrine of the 
Elder Tree
If this is the 7th or later building you  construct, it still only scores 8 
Silva Forum
A contiguous group refers to  buildings that are adjacent to one  another.
The Starloom
You score the full points for 1st, 2nd,  or 3rd if you complete your town in  the same round as (tie with) another  player.
Statue of the 
Bondmaker
Resources on squares containing 
 cannot be used to construct  buildings.
Credits
Design 
Peter McPherson
Development Lead 
Josh Wood
Project Lead 
Nicolas Bongiu
Production 
David Lepore
Art 
Gong Studios
Graphic Design 
Matt Paquette
Writing 
Andre Chautard
©2019 Alderac Entertainment Group.
Tiny Towns and all associated marks are  
™ and © Alderac Entertainment, Inc.  
555 N El Camino Real #A393,  
San Clemente, CA 92672, USA
All rights reserved. Printed in China.
Warning: Choking Hazard!  Not for use by  children under 3 years of age.
Questions?  email customerservice@alderac.com www.alderac.com/tiny-towns 
Special Thanks
Peter McPherson is a freelance writer and  game designer from upstate New York.  
Tiny Towns is his first game.
Thank you to Indiana Nash for her endless  encouragement and for being the first  playester. I would also like to thank my  family: Dad, Mom, and Griff. 
Thank you to Alan Barrett for his work on  the first prototype. 
Thank you to John Zinser for believing  in this tiny game, and to Josh Wood for  all of his input, ideas, and general design  wisdom.
Tiny Towns is dedicated to the  memory of Bill Dawes.
Thank you to the playtesters:  
Courtney Maki, Josh Beauregard, Mark 
J. Minick, Jenna Townsend, Lucas Roby, 
Jesse Bisceglia, Adam Schuurmans, Nick 
Wilsey, Faith Hardin, Nick Painter, Jenny 
Ritz, Ben Ritz, Andrew Couperus, Danielle 
Schissler, Josh McCabe, Kevin Root, 
Jeff Warrender, Kevin Gibson, Quentin 
Hudspeth, Dean Howard, P.D. Magnus, 
Brian Neugebauer, Sam LaFleche, Kevin 
Piala, Jed Moody, Martin Glazer, Emily 
Garrick, Jon “Ouch!” Luke, and all of the  others who played this game.